The Bitcoin network is made up of a peer-to-peer network
of computers that allow information to be shared across users.
With the debug console we can query the level of
pure connectivity and even modify our peer list.
In this video we'll explore the peer-to-peer network using three commands,
getnetworkinfo, getpeerinfo, and getconnectioncount.
These are useful when we want to connect to other users,
or understand the connections we've made with other users in the network.
It might not be so clear why yet,
but this is extremely useful when configuring backend services with multiple nodes.
We'll be doing this type of work later in the program.
For now, we're mostly hoping that you'd get some exposure to
these commands so later we can focus on how to use them in your application.
Let's get started with getnetworkinfo.
You might be noticing a pattern here.
Just like getblockchaininfo, and getmenpoolinfo,
getnetworkinfo allows you to get
a high level overview of the network you're currently on.
This is a helpful way to get basic information,
and sanity check that everything's working correctly.
Using the help function,
we can see that it will return information about our network like the version,
subversion, protocol version, and much more.
Read through some of the details provided in the console,
then try running it for yourself.
I'll run it here by typing getnetworkinfo.
Here, we can see that the subversion is Satoshi 0160,
going down a little further,
you'll see the networks we're on.
In this case, ipv4, ipv6, and onion.
A lot of this has already been provided in the information panel.
You can go there by clicking up here on the top left.
This information might not be something you use for your application,
but here's an example of a way you could use it.
The Bitcoin Core wallet is pulling this information similar to how you just did,
and it's presenting it to you on the user interface.
It's a nice way to provide quick access to some of
the more important information your users might need.
Next, let's try the command getpeerinfo.
This command returns data about each connected network node.
Also known as your peers.
Having peer Info allows you to see the details of the users in the network.
This helps you check to see who you are connected to,
and the details about their connection.
This can be useful in situations where you'd like to add or remove peers,
or work with the information provided to you about them.
Using help, you'll see that this will allow you to get information like the ID,
adress, and services for every node that is connected to the network.
I'll try it now by typing getpeerinfo,
you might notice that the output is pretty large compared to our other commands.
That's because the data we get back is a separate group of
information for every node we're connected to in the network.
As an example of how you might be able to display this information,
you can check out the peers window in the console.
When I click on peers,
I can see the node ID,
service, ping and other details of each node in the network.
This is all the same information that's presented in the get peer info command.
So, when we talk about the peer to peer network,
we've been mentioning it mostly as a concept.
What's cool about this is that it's the first time you're seeing some of these peers,
and what information is available to investigate the different nodes.
Finally, let's look at get connection count.
This command returns the number of connections you have to other nodes in the network.
It's nothing fancy, but it's just another way
to get information about nodes you're connected to.
Using the help function,
you can see that there's not really much to it.
So, let's run it and see what we get.
Right now, it's showing that we have eight peers.
This might not seem like much,
but it's another example of information you can have
access to that you could potentially provide to your users.
We haven't been giving exact use cases for each of these,
because it depends on what you're making.
But to get a little creative,
maybe I'd want to build a social network app where
the nodes I'm connected to are considered my friends.
Using a command like this,
I can show people how many friends they have.
Just making that up, we're not totally focused on applications yet,
but hopefully thinking of ideas like this can
help you pull through some of the less exciting commands.
As a final note, you can see each of these peers over in the peers window like before.
It doesn't show account,
but since it's pretty small I can easily see that it's
correctly showing me that I have eight peers connected to me.
That wraps up the three commands you can use to check out the network.
To recap, we covered getnetworkinfo, getpeerinfo, and getconnectioncount.
Feel free to explore these commands as you continue to expand your network.